# Reversing-Radar-
A cost-effective and highly integrated ultrasonic reversing alarm system was developed and tested to accurately detect and alert drivers of obstacles directly behind and on both sides of a vehicle.
We introduced some basic characteristics of ultrasonic waves and commonly used ultrasonic ranging solutions, and finally designed an ultrasonic reversing auxiliary alarm system based on practical means and actual needs. This system can not only detect obstacles directly behind the car, but also has a good prompting effect on large obstacles on both sides of the car. In this article, by analyzing the basic principles of ultrasonic ranging and combining the goals to be achieved, the ultrasonic transmitting and receiving circuit, display circuit, alarm circuit, etc. are designed. In order to maximize the accuracy in ranging, measures such as temperature compensation are also used. 
Finally, through simulation testing, it was found that the system can not only achieve accurate distance measurement at a distance of 20cm-400cm in the horizontal positive direction, but also can promptly alarm when there is an obstacle directly behind and determine the approximate orientation of the object. For the shape rules on both sides of the vehicle body the large obstacles also serve as reminders. This design has the advantages of low cost and high integration. It is very effective in assisting drivers of low-end cars and large trucks to reverse, so it still has certain theoretical and practical value.
